# Dynamic Difficulty Adjustment

## Authors
Kira Toal and Veda Ashok

Designing challenging but replayable video games gives players added value in their purchase and experience, but can be a difficult balance to strike as players become acclimated to the in-game obstacles and adversaries they encounter. Adversarial environments in typical video games tend to either be fixed or utilize randomized policies that can be exploited by experienced players. Even machine learning techniques that are overfit to challenge the average player do not necessarily account for players of a particular type (such as those who have quick reaction times), or players who employ particularly exploitative strategies. To combat these limitations, this research aims to build an adversary that understands players’ instinctive reactions to game states and uses that understanding to dynamically challenge the player as the game is played. This project attempts to characterize different player types and discover adversarial strategies that directly challenge and adapt to their play style. This is accomplished through a 2D bullet-hell, platformer style video game that employs techniques from reinforcement learning (a variant of SARSA) and causal inference (empirical counterfactuals). The adversarial agent allows players to adapt to it predictively before switching to a counter policy that directly challenges that adaptation. Experiments with human subjects will determine the efficacy of this new technique on both objective (player score over repeated trials) and subjective (player satisfaction with game and difficulty) metrics of success. This research discusses possible applications of these dynamic difficulty adjustment techniques in richer environments and with wider possibilities of player policies in future games.
